docs: Trend: Implement docs for v10 (#67794)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/panels-visualizations/visualizations/trend/index.md

---
keywords:
  - grafana
  - graph panel
  - trend panel
  - documentation
  - guide

>   - graph

Reviewer: maybe also `line chart`

title: Trend

> weight: 90

Reviewer 2: Is there any reason that this page is not in alphabetical order or can we move it? (I realize there are few pages in this section that are out of alpha order, but this one is easy to fix since it'll be the last one)

Author: I'm ok with moving it to be in alphabetic order

---

# Trend

> The trend visualization type is the default and primary way to visualize data as a graph where x != time. It can render series as lines, points, or bars. It is versatile enough to display almost any sequential data.

Reviewer: > The trend visualization type is the default and primary way to visualize data as a graph where x != time.

not sure about this. barcharts and xy don't have x time.

the intro can probably just provide concrete examples of datasets, such as:

> The trend visualization should be used for datasets that have sequential, numeric X that is _not_ time. Some examples are function graphs, rpm/torque curves, supply/demand relationships, elevation or heartrate plots along a route race route (with x as distance as duration from start).
>
> The trend panel supports all of the visual styles and options available in the [Time series panel]({{< relref "../time-series" >}}) with these exceptions:
>
> - No annotations or time regions
> - No shared crosshair
> - No multi-timezone x axis
> - No ability to change the dashboard time range via drag-selection

> The trend visualization type is the default and primary way to visualize data as a graph where x != time. It can render series as lines, points, or bars. It is versatile enough to display almost any sequential data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The trend visualization type is the default and primary way to visualize data as a graph where `x != time`. It can render series as lines, points, or bars and is versatile enough to display almost any sequential data.
```

> The trend panel supports all of the [visual options]({{< relref "../time-series" >}}) available to the time series panel with the exception of:

Reviewer 2: We call it the visualization type in the previous section, but the panel here. Do these mean different things?

- Annotation support
- Shared crosshair support
- Ability to zoom into data

> ## X Field Selection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## X Field selection
```

Use this option to select a field that contains increasing numeric values.

{{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/screenshot-grafana-10-0-trend-x-value.png" max-width="750px" caption="Trend x value selection" >}}

> For example, we could represent age vs weight data where age is plotted on the x axis and weight is plotted on the y axis.

Reviewer 2: We default to second person and avoid Latin abbreviations
```suggestion
For example, you could represent age versus weight data where age is plotted on the x-axis and weight is plotted on the y-axis.
```
